flow: Add otelcol.receiver.vcenter component (#5715)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter.md

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
title: otelcol.receiver.vcenter
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.vcenter
---

# otelcol.receiver.vcenter

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` accepts telemetry data from a 
vCenter or ESXi host running VMware vSphere APIs and

> forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

Reviewer: I think this paragraph needs a few more things:
* We need to make it clear that this component only works with metrics.
* Which metrics are produced? Seems it is [these](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.87.0/receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md) ones? If we are not going to list them in our docs, it would be good to link to the OTel page instead. However, I'd prefer if we don't link to the OTel page because it contains yaml config for the collector which our users will find confusing. Could you try to list them here please?
* Do we need to list the [prerequisites](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/v0.87.0/receiver/vcenterreceiver/README.md#prerequisites)? They seem useful.

Author: Do we need to include everything that it's in the component readme? Or linking to it would provide users some understanding what are they using?

Reviewer: > Do we need to include everything that it's in the component readme?

No - we might include more information, or less. We need to assume that the users will not read the Collector docs and that our doc page is the first page they are seeing for this component. 

> Or linking to it would provide users some understanding what are they using?

In general we avoid linking to OTel docs because they tend to contain Collector-specific yaml config which confuses the users. It's best to include all the relevant info in our own docs, unless there is a strong reason not to.

> upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.vcenter` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

## Usage

```river
otelcol.receiver.vcenter "LABEL" {
  endpoint = "VCENTER_ENDPOINT"
  username = "VCENTER_USERNAME"
  password = "VCENTER_PASSWORD"

  output {
    metrics = [...]
  }
}
```

## Arguments

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` supports the following arguments:

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`endpoint` | `string` | Endpoint to the vCenter Server or ESXi host that has the sdk path enabled. | | yes
`username` | `string` | Username to use for authentication. | | yes
`password` | `string` | Password to use for authentication. | | yes
`collection_interval` | `duration` | This receiver collects metrics on an interval. | `"1m"` | no
`initial_delay` | `duration` | Defines how long this receiver waits before starting.. | `"1s"` | no
`timeout` | `duration` | Defines the timeout for the underlying HTTP client. | `"0s"` | no

`endpoint` has the following format: `<protocol>://<hostname>` (e.g. `https://vcsa.hostname.localnet`)

> ## Blocks

Reviewer: Are we not boing to have config for vcenter resource attributes?
```
// ResourceAttributesConfig provides config for vcenter resource attributes.
type ResourceAttributesConfig struct {
	VcenterClusterName               ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.cluster.name"`
	VcenterDatastoreName             ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.datastore.name"`
	VcenterHostName                  ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.host.name"`
	VcenterResourcePoolInventoryPath ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.resource_pool.inventory_path"`
	VcenterResourcePoolName          ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.resource_pool.name"`
	VcenterVMID                      ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.vm.id"`
	VcenterVMName                    ResourceAttributeConfig `mapstructure:"vcenter.vm.name"`
}
```

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`otelcol.receiver.vcenter`:

Hierarchy | Block | Description | Required
--------- | ----- | ----------- | --------

> tls | [tls][] | Configures TLS for the server. | no

Reviewer: I think this component has a client and not a servier?
```suggestion
tls | [tls][] | Configures TLS for the HTTP client. | no
```

[tls]: #tls-block
[debug_metrics]: #debug_metrics-block
[output]: #output-block

### tls block

The `tls` block configures TLS settings used for a server. If the `tls` block
isn't provided, TLS won't be used for connections to the server.

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/otelcol-tls-config-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

### debug_metrics block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/otelcol-debug-metrics-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

### output block

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/reference/components/output-block.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

## Exported fields

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` does not export any fields.

## Component health

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` is only reported as unhealthy if given an invalid
configuration.

## Debug information

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` does not expose any component-specific debug
information.

## Example

This example forwards received telemetry data through a batch processor before
finally sending it to an OTLP-capable endpoint:

```river
otelcol.receiver.vcenter "default" {

>   endpoint         = "http://localhost:15672"
>   username		   = "otelu"
>   password         = "password"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  endpoint = "http://localhost:15672"
  username = "otelu"
  password = "password"
```

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
title: otelcol.receiver.vcenter
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.vcenter
---

# otelcol.receiver.vcenter

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` accepts metrics from a 
vCenter or ESXi host running VMware vSphere APIs and
forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.vcenter` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `vcenter` receiver from the `otelcol-contrib`
> distribution. Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the
> upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.vcenter` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

> Make sure that you fulfill the [prerequisites](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver/README.md#prerequisites) before using this component.

Reviewer: There are a couple of issues with linking to the OTEL docs like this:
* This link goes to the main branch. It'd ideally go to the version of OTEL which we use - see the otelcol.processor.transform for example URLs.
* There are various things listed in the page, including Collector yampl config examples and Collector feature gates. This could be confusing to the Agent users. 

I'd prefer if we just copy over the relevant information:

> This receiver has been built to support ESXi and vCenter versions:
> 
> * 7.5
> * 7.0
> * 6.7
> 
> A “Read Only” user assigned to a vSphere with permissions to the vCenter server, cluster and all subsequent resources being monitored must be specified in order for the receiver to retrieve information about them.

> The full list of metrics that can be collected can be found [here](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md)

Reviewer: I had a look at this page, and a few things are not clear to me:
* There are [optional metrics](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md#optional-metrics). How are these enabled in the Agent? There is a yaml config in the Collector docs, but I don't see how this translates to Agent config.
* Are the [resource attributes](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/receiver/vcenterreceiver/documentation.md#resource-attributes) enabled in the Agent by default as well? Can they be disabled?

---
aliases:
- /docs/grafana-cloud/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
- /docs/grafana-cloud/monitor-infrastructure/integrations/agent/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/agent/latest/flow/reference/components/otelcol.receiver.vcenter/
title: otelcol.receiver.vcenter
description: Learn about otelcol.receiver.vcenter
labels:
  stage: experimental
---

# otelcol.receiver.vcenter

{{< docs/shared lookup="flow/stability/experimental.md" source="agent" version="<AGENT VERSION>" >}}

`otelcol.receiver.vcenter` accepts metrics from a 
vCenter or ESXi host running VMware vSphere APIs and
forwards it to other `otelcol.*` components.

> **NOTE**: `otelcol.receiver.vcenter` is a wrapper over the upstream
> OpenTelemetry Collector `vcenter` receiver from the `otelcol-contrib`
> distribution. Bug reports or feature requests will be redirected to the
> upstream repository, if necessary.

Multiple `otelcol.receiver.vcenter` components can be specified by giving them
different labels.

> The full list of metrics that can be collected can be found [here][vcenter metrics].

Reviewer: We avoid using the word "here" in links:
https://developers.google.com/style/link-text#write-link-text
